Every year, E-REDES faces the same challenge to control, manage and improve the detection of vegetation around the high and medium voltage overhead lines in order to avoid power failures and to increase operational efficiency. In order to address this difficult challenge, Analytics 4 Vegetation was born, an innovative, high-technology project that resorts to powerful algorithms of machine learning and data integration from various information sources, to achieve four objectives. Boosting process automation, from data collecting to issuing maintenance orders, centralizing all data sources for vegetation management, creating strong machine learning algorithms to predict vegetation growth and severity index, creating dashboards to facilitate the aggregated display of information and to facilitate decision-making. The process begins with helicopter or drone flights, that use LiDAR technology to map the area along the power grid and establish the distance between the vegetation and overhead lines. The data collected are crossed with dozen of internal and external information sources and are processed by the two main artificial intelligence models of Analytics4Vegetation. The growth model, which predicts the vegetation species' growth rate, and the severity model, which calculates the degree of risk of the associated grid asset. These models are processed in a Big Data infrastructure, through algorithms that complete an extensive data record, identifying the vegetation potentially in need of intervention, considering the stipulated safety distances. The system automatically generates maintenance orders in the operational systems, forwarding them to an external service provider to clear the vegetation. After the work on the ground is completed, the data are immediately updated in every system and reinserted in the analytical models in order to predict the optimal time period for a new maintenance. TO help the various participants of the process in their decision-making, these data are presented on intuitive, personalized dashboards. Analytics4Vegetation is an effective advanced analytical solution for controlling vegetation, due to its ability to anticipate risk situations and to allow teams to perform proactively. This way, it ensures the continuity of the power supply and the defense of the forest heritage. Through Analytics4Vegetation, E-Redes makes use of the most recent technological developments and of data science, to optimize network operations and to protect the forest patrimony.